is what we are seeing in Gaza the death
destruction and starvation of violation
of international law that is what the
state department has been investigating
if they said yes US military aid could
be cut
off the report found it's possible
Israel is violating the law but they
aren't definitively saying it is using
language like it is reasonable to assess
that defense articles have been used by
Israeli Security Forces inconsistent
with its IHL or International
humanitarian law obligations but they
argue the law does not have to be
invoked because Israel is investigating
the report says Israel says it's
implementing restrictive measures to
protect sites such as hospitals schools
places of worship and un
facilities according to the United
Nations hospital and medical facilities
have been attacked more than 600 times
schools attacked more than 200 hundreds
of houses of worship destroyed and 169
un facilities have been attacked that's
not highlighted in the report but it
does single out a long list of incidents
spelling out the facts Israel targeting
humanitarian convoys including the
killing of seven World Central kitchen
workers attacks on hundreds trying to
get Aid targeting buildings housing
humanitarian Aid workers analysts say
this kind of us criticism of Israel is
unprecedent ented they make factual
findings that um Israel's violating
international law they want it to be a
political decision to hold weapons not a
legal requirement to withhold weapons
and so I think that was a political
decision of the White House and the
state department to deliberately fall
short of requiring themselves to ha
armed shipments so that they can use
that as a carrot and stick politically
with the Israelis this doesn't change US
President Joe Biden's threat to cut off
offensive weapons if Israel launches a
full-scale invasion of rala but it does
lay out more reasons why he might Patty
khain Al jazer
Washington make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer